WATCHOS_BUILD_GUIDE.md, before:

# watchOS Build Guide - Complete Solution

## 🎯 Current Status: READY TO BUILD

Your watchOS project is now properly configured and ready for development! Here's what I've set up for you:

### ✅ What's Fixed
1. **Placeholder XCFramework Structure**: Created the missing `Shared.xcframework` with proper iOS/watchOS slices
2. **Swift Package Manager**: Your `Package.swift` now resolves correctly
3. **Development Scripts**: Windows and macOS development scripts are ready
4. **CI/CD Pipeline**: GitHub Actions workflows are configured for automated builds

## 🚀 How to Proceed

### Option 1: Windows Development (Recommended for Daily Work)

**You can now develop Swift code on Windows!**

1. **Open Xcode Project**:
   ```bash
   # On Windows (if you have Xcode installed) or macOS
   open watchos/MeBeatMe.xcodeproj
   ```

2. **Develop Swift Code**:
   - Edit files in `watchos/MeBeatMeWatch/`
   - The placeholder framework satisfies Swift Package Manager
   - Compilation will work (though functions won't execute until real framework is used)

3. **Test Your Changes**:
   ```powershell
   # Run the Windows development script
   .\scripts\dev-win.ps1
   ```

4. **Push to Trigger CI**:
   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit -m "Your watchOS changes"
   git push
   ```

### Option 2: macOS Development (Full Testing)

**For complete testing and device deployment:**

1. **Pull CI Artifacts** (on macOS):
   ```bash
   ./scripts/pull-artifacts-mac.sh
   ```

2. **Open Xcode Project**:
   ```bash
   open watchos/MeBeatMe.xcodeproj
   ```

3. **Select Target**:
   - Choose Apple Watch Simulator (e.g., Apple Watch Series 9)
   - Or select your physical Apple Watch

4. **Build and Run**:
   - Press `Cmd+R` to build and run
   - Test with sample files in `TestAssets/`

## 📱 Your watchOS App Features

Your app includes these production-ready features:

### Core Functionality
- **File Import**: GPX and TCX file support
- **PPI Analysis**: Personal Performance Index calculations
- **Performance Recommendations**: Training suggestions
- **Progress Tracking**: 90-day PPI tracking
- **Clean UI**: SwiftUI interface optimized for Apple Watch

### Technical Architecture
- **MVVM Pattern**: Clean separation of concerns
- **KMP Integration**: Shared Kotlin Multiplatform logic
- **Local Storage**: JSON-based persistence
- **Comprehensive Testing**: Unit tests for all functionality

## 🔧 Development Workflow

### Daily Development (Windows)
```powershell
# 1. Develop Swift code
# Edit files in watchos/MeBeatMeWatch/

# 2. Test compilation
.\scripts\dev-win.ps1

# 3. Push changes
git add .
git commit -m "Your changes"
git push
```

### Testing & Deployment (macOS)
```bash
# 1. Pull latest CI artifacts
./scripts/pull-artifacts-mac.sh

# 2. Open Xcode
open watchos/MeBeatMe.xcodeproj

# 3. Build and test
# Select simulator or device, then Cmd+R
```

## 🎯 Next Steps

### Immediate Actions
1. **Open the Xcode project** and explore the codebase
2. **Run the Windows development script** to verify everything works
3. **Make a small change** to test the workflow
4. **Push to trigger CI** and see the automated build

### Testing Your App
1. **Import Sample Files**: Use files from `TestAssets/` directory
2. **Test PPI Calculations**: Verify the analysis works correctly
3. **Check UI Flow**: Navigate through all screens
4. **Test Persistence**: Save and load runs

### Device Deployment
1. **Set up Apple Developer Account** in Xcode
2. **Configure Signing & Provisioning**
3. **Select Your Apple Watch** as destination
4. **Deploy and Test** on real hardware

## 🚨 Important Notes

### Placeholder Framework
- ⚠️ **Placeholder libraries are empty** - they won't provide actual functionality
- ✅ **Swift compilation will work** - SPM accepts the structure
- 🔄 **Replace with real framework** when testing on macOS
- 📱 **CI builds the real framework** for production use

### CI/CD Pipeline
- **Automated Builds**: GitHub Actions builds XCFramework on macOS
- **Artifact Downloads**: Use `pull-artifacts-mac.sh` to get real frameworks
- **Cross-Platform**: Windows development + macOS testing workflow

## 🆘 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues
1. **Build Failures**: Ensure CI artifacts are downloaded on macOS
2. **Import Errors**: Check file format and GPS data quality
3. **PPI Calculation**: Verify KMP bridge is properly integrated
4. **Storage Issues**: Check device storage and permissions

### Getting Help
1. Check the troubleshooting section in `README_watchOS.md`
2. Review test cases for usage examples
3. Examine sample files for format requirements
4. Create an issue with detailed reproduction steps

## 🎉 You're Ready!

Your watchOS project is now properly configured and ready for development. The placeholder framework structure allows you to develop on Windows while maintaining the proper macOS CI/CD workflow for production builds.

**Start by opening the Xcode project and exploring the codebase - you're all set to build your watchOS app!**

Commit message:

Fix misleading Xcode reference in watchOS guide
- Clarify that Xcode is macOS-only, not available on Windows
- Update Windows development section to be accurate
- Remove incorrect suggestion that Xcode can run on Windows

WATCHOS_BUILD_GUIDE.md, after:

# watchOS Build Guide - Complete Solution

## 🎯 Current Status: READY TO BUILD

Your watchOS project is now properly configured and ready for development! Here's what I've set up for you:

### ✅ What's Fixed
1. **Placeholder XCFramework Structure**: Created the missing `Shared.xcframework` with proper iOS/watchOS slices
2. **Swift Package Manager**: Your `Package.swift` now resolves correctly
3. **Development Scripts**: Windows and macOS development scripts are ready
4. **CI/CD Pipeline**: GitHub Actions workflows are configured for automated builds

## 🚀 How to Proceed

### Option 1: Windows Development (Recommended for Daily Work)

**You can develop Swift code on Windows, but cannot run Xcode!**

1. **Open Xcode Project** (macOS only):
   ```bash
   # Xcode is NOT available on Windows - macOS only!
   open watchos/MeBeatMe.xcodeproj
   ```

2. **Develop Swift Code** (Windows):
   - Edit files in `watchos/MeBeatMeWatch/` using any text editor
   - Use VS Code, IntelliJ IDEA, or any Swift-capable editor
   - The placeholder framework satisfies Swift Package Manager
   - You can write and edit Swift code, but cannot compile/run it

3. **Test Your Changes**:
   ```powershell
   # Run the Windows development script
   .\scripts\dev-win.ps1
   ```

4. **Push to Trigger CI**:
   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit -m "Your watchOS changes"
   git push
   ```

### Option 2: macOS Development (Full Testing)

**For complete testing and device deployment:**

1. **Pull CI Artifacts** (on macOS):
   ```bash
   ./scripts/pull-artifacts-mac.sh
   ```

2. **Open Xcode Project**:
   ```bash
   open watchos/MeBeatMe.xcodeproj
   ```

3. **Select Target**:
   - Choose Apple Watch Simulator (e.g., Apple Watch Series 9)
   - Or select your physical Apple Watch

4. **Build and Run**:
   - Press `Cmd+R` to build and run
   - Test with sample files in `TestAssets/`

## 📱 Your watchOS App Features

Your app includes these production-ready features:

### Core Functionality
- **File Import**: GPX and TCX file support
- **PPI Analysis**: Personal Performance Index calculations
- **Performance Recommendations**: Training suggestions
- **Progress Tracking**: 90-day PPI tracking
- **Clean UI**: SwiftUI interface optimized for Apple Watch

### Technical Architecture
- **MVVM Pattern**: Clean separation of concerns
- **KMP Integration**: Shared Kotlin Multiplatform logic
- **Local Storage**: JSON-based persistence
- **Comprehensive Testing**: Unit tests for all functionality

## 🔧 Development Workflow

### Daily Development (Windows)
```powershell
# 1. Develop Swift code
# Edit files in watchos/MeBeatMeWatch/

# 2. Test compilation
.\scripts\dev-win.ps1

# 3. Push changes
git add .
git commit -m "Your changes"
git push
```

### Testing & Deployment (macOS)
```bash
# 1. Pull latest CI artifacts
./scripts/pull-artifacts-mac.sh

# 2. Open Xcode
open watchos/MeBeatMe.xcodeproj

# 3. Build and test
# Select simulator or device, then Cmd+R
```

## 🎯 Next Steps

### Immediate Actions
1. **Open the Xcode project** and explore the codebase
2. **Run the Windows development script** to verify everything works
3. **Make a small change** to test the workflow
4. **Push to trigger CI** and see the automated build

### Testing Your App
1. **Import Sample Files**: Use files from `TestAssets/` directory
2. **Test PPI Calculations**: Verify the analysis works correctly
3. **Check UI Flow**: Navigate through all screens
4. **Test Persistence**: Save and load runs

### Device Deployment
1. **Set up Apple Developer Account** in Xcode
2. **Configure Signing & Provisioning**
3. **Select Your Apple Watch** as destination
4. **Deploy and Test** on real hardware

## 🚨 Important Notes

### Placeholder Framework
- ⚠️ **Placeholder libraries are empty** - they won't provide actual functionality
- ✅ **Swift compilation will work** - SPM accepts the structure
- 🔄 **Replace with real framework** when testing on macOS
- 📱 **CI builds the real framework** for production use

### CI/CD Pipeline
- **Automated Builds**: GitHub Actions builds XCFramework on macOS
- **Artifact Downloads**: Use `pull-artifacts-mac.sh` to get real frameworks
- **Cross-Platform**: Windows development + macOS testing workflow

## 🆘 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues
1. **Build Failures**: Ensure CI artifacts are downloaded on macOS
2. **Import Errors**: Check file format and GPS data quality
3. **PPI Calculation**: Verify KMP bridge is properly integrated
4. **Storage Issues**: Check device storage and permissions

### Getting Help
1. Check the troubleshooting section in `README_watchOS.md`
2. Review test cases for usage examples
3. Examine sample files for format requirements
4. Create an issue with detailed reproduction steps

## 🎉 You're Ready!

Your watchOS project is now properly configured and ready for development. The placeholder framework structure allows you to develop on Windows while maintaining the proper macOS CI/CD workflow for production builds.

**Start by opening the Xcode project and exploring the codebase - you're all set to build your watchOS app!**
